STORY.
>> OUR THANKS TO HIM.
WE ALSO HAVE OUR TEAMS ON THE
GROUND IN MAINE RIGHT NOW.
THEY WILL HAVE UPDATES FOR US
SURROUNDING THE MORNING.
>> WE ARE ALSO FOLLOWING
ANOTHER MAJOR STORY, THIS
MORNING, EARLIER THIS MORNING.
SMOKE BILLOWING OVER GAZA AFTER
AN AIRSTRIKE IS SEEN FROM
SDEROT, ISRAEL.
ISRAEL SAYS THEY CONDUCTED A
TARGETED RAID OF THE TANKS
INSIDE NORTHERN GAZA BEFORE
WITHDRAWING, YOU CAN SEE IN
THIS VIDEO PUBLISHED BY THE IDF,
ARMORED VEHICLES, INCLUDING A
BULLDOZER ISRAEL SAYS IS PART
OF THE PREPARATIONS FOR THE
NEXT STAGE OF COMBAT.
IN THESE NEW SATELLITE IMAGES
SHOW SIGNIFICANT DESTRUCTION
ACROSS GAZA ON THE L AN
IMAGE FROM OCTOBER 10TH, AND ON
THE RIGHT, JUST 11 DAYS LATER.
>> YOU CAN SEE HOW MUCH IS
FLATTENED THERE, THIS COMES AS
PRIME MINISTER SPOKE YESTERDAY
FOR GROUND INCURSION.
HERE'S WE SAID.
>> WE ARE RAINING HELLFIRE ON
HAMAS.
THIS IS ONLY THE BEGINNING.
AT THE SAME TIME WE ARE
PREPARING FOR A GROUND
INCURSION, I WILL NOT DETAIL
WHEN, HOW, OR HOW MANY.
OR THE OVERALL CONSIDERATION
THAT WE ARE TAKING INTO
ACCOUNT.
MOST OF WHICH ARE UNKNOWN TO
THE PUBLIC, THIS IS HOW IT
NEEDS TO BE IN ORDER TO
SAFEGUARD THE LIVES OF OUR
SOLDIERS.
>> ERIN BURNETT JOINS US FROM
JERUSALEM.
AIR, AND THAT WAS A BIG SET OF
MOVEMENTS OWNED THE GROUND
OVERNIGHT, I'M WONDERING HOW
SIGNIFICANT THAT WAS.
AND THE CONTEXT OF WHAT WE JUST
HEARD THE PRIME MINISTER SAY.
>> VERY SIGNIFICANT, POPPY.
IN FACT IN THIS WAR THE MOST
SIGNIFICANT ASSAULT ON GAZA SO
FAR.
THAT MIGHT BE A GROUND ASSAULT
ON CARS OVER THE PAST DECADE.
IT DOES VERY MUCH MOVE TO THE
NEXT STAGE.
THE FORCES WENT IN, THEY DID
COME OUT AFTER CONDUCTING
OPERATIONS.
THEY SAID THEY KILLED NUMEROUS
TERRORISTS.
THEY DID NOT GIVE AN EXACT
NUMBER.
ALSO ANTI TANK MINE SEARCHING.
AS THEY WENT THROUGH THAT
RUBBLE IN NORTHERN GAZA.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME IN AN
SIGNIFICANT WAY, COULD BE THE
BIGGEST IN A DECADE.
WE DO KNOW SPECIAL FORCES
OBVIOUSLY HAVE BEEN AND GAZA,
THAT THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT
SHIFT OVERNIGHT AND THE REALITY
OF IT IS OF COURSE WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THOSE IMAGES BEFORAND
AFTER, IT HAS BEEN REDUCED TO
RUBBLE.
WE COMPARED IT TO WHAT EVEN YOU
SEE IN A PLACE LIKE BAKHMUT.
BUT THE REALITY IS THE
PRE-IMPOSED, YOU COULD SEE IT
ALREADY WHAT ISRAEL HAS
ACCOMPLISHED IN ITS WAR AS IT
SEES IT THROUGH THE STRIKES.
THOUSANDS OF STRIKES JUST OVER
THESE PAST THREE WEEKS THAT WE
HAVE BEEN COVERING THIS WAR.
THEY DIDN'T RELEASE THAT VIDEO.
OF COURSE WE SHOULD EMPHASIZE
WHEN YOU GET A FEW OF THE
FRONTLINE THAT VIDEO IS COMING
FROM THE IDF.
THEY HAVE NOT PROVIDED THE
ACCESS FOR JOURNALISTS TO
ACTUALLY SEE THAT AND WITNESS
THAT OURSELVES THE POPPY.
>> AARON, THE SPLIT SCREEN
YOU'RE LOOKING AT RIGHT NOW.
OF THE TWO DIFFERENT TIMELINES
FOR GAZA.
UNDERSCORES THE ACUTE NATURE OF
THE BAIT, THE ONGOING INTENSIVE
DEBATE FOR HUMANITARIANS.
THE U.N. IS ALMOST RUNNING OUT
OF FUEL, SCALING BACK
HUMANITARIAN RELATIONS.
WHAT IS THE LATEST EFFORTS TO
TRY TO EXPAND IT AND TO
CONTINUE TO RUN INTO ROADBLOCKS?
>> YOU USE THE WORD ACUTE.
I THINK THAT IS THE RIGHT WORD.
THE ONE SAID THEY WOULD RUN OUT
ALL NECESSARY SUPPLIES FOR ANY
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
OVERNIGHT.
WE ARE NOW IN THE AFTERNOON IN
ISRAEL, THEY SAY THEY ARE NOW
RATIONING FUEL.
THAT IS GIVING THEM A BIT MORE
TIME, BUT THEY ARE RATIONING.
THAT MEANS OBVIOUSLY A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE NOT GETTING WHAT
THEY MADE.
HOSPITALS HAVE ALREADY BEEN
SHUT DOWN.
MANY OF THEM FROM BEING ABLE TO
PROVIDE ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
THE U.N. USES THE WORD
PARALYZED TO DESCRIBE THE
SITUATION THEY'RE FACING ON THE
GROUND.
I WAS TALKING TO A PEDIATRICIAN,
UN-AMERICAN, THE EXHAUSTION IN
HER VOICE.
SHE SAID ONE TOILET FOR 800
PEOPLE.
AND JUST THAT IMAGE OF COURSE
IS HARD TO DESCRIBE.
YOU CAN DESCRIBE THE LINES.
YOU CAN IMAGINE WHAT THAT MEANS
AND YOU CAN IMAGINE THE DISEASE
AND THAT IS WHAT AN AMERICAN
PEDIATRICIAN IS EXPERIENCING
AMONG THAT RAFAH BORDER
CROSSING.
IT IS OBVIOUSLY SIGNIFICANTLY
WORSE IN THE NORTH.
THE ISRAELI AIRSTRIKES AS YOU
KNOW WHILE THEY HAVE DECIMATED
THE NORTH.
ALSO STRIKE AREAS CLOSER TO
RAFAH IN THE ISRAELI AIRSTRIKES.